So the moment comes where we have to
present all of this back to the client.
Now we've been involving them as we go,
so that kinda helps to some degree.
But we need to get sooner or later to a
point where we do a probably a more formal
presentation of some description and
get some more formal feedback.
So first of all, take the time to
prepare before presenting, right?
You want everything to be all lined
up before you get to any kind
of formal presentation process
when it comes to design.
And the more thoroughly you're prepared,
the better the whole thing is gonna go.
So for a start, it's gonna give you more
confidence when it comes to presenting.
And if you're more confident,
that tends to give the client and
stakeholders a lot more
confidence as well.
Preparation will also prevent you from
being surprised by any questions or
objections from stakeholders.
So thinking through what they might come
back with is a key part of preparing.
And having a plan, right, means that
you're gonna remain in control of
the process because very quickly
when it comes to presenting design,
you can really lose control there.
And it kind of, everybody else
starts designing the website and
you become a pixel pusher that
just moves a few things around and
that's a horrible place to be.
So we're gonna want to avoid that as well.
So one way of preparing
as we've already said,
is to involve the stakeholder
at multiple times.
With the style tiles, with working out
the content and the objections and
the brand keywords, and the wireframing.
All of those are opportunities to
engage with the stakeholder and
get them involved and by doing that,
they will understand more.
Because the stakeholder is more
involved in the design process,
they'll understand the decisions
that have been made along the line.
And that puts them in a much better place
to make educated and informed decisions.
Secondly, right, it will give them a sense
of ownership over the design, right?
They will feel like they were
a part of creating it and
if they were a part of creating it,
they're gonna be less likely to reject it.
And finally, if they were involved in
creating it, they're also gonna be more
likely to defend that design and that
approach to other stakeholders, right?
So involving people is really powerful.
Just to briefly remind
you how we're doing that,
we're gonna get them involved
in defining the content.
We're gonna get them involved in
prioritizing the content with user
retention point exercise.
Creating brand keywords and
in the style guides, right?
Those are our key opportunities but there
are whole other opportunities as well.
For example, I do exercises like the book
jacket exercise where I get them
to imagine that they are representing
their company on a book.
And they have to make decisions
about what goes on the front cover,
what goes on the spine, what goes on
the back cover and the inside flap.
And all of that helps them to
prioritize their messaging and
things like their value proposition and
that kind of stuff.
Another exercise I sometimes do
is called the six-up exercise.
One of the big problems when it comes to
websites is that people have a particular
mental image in their heads of what
the website will do and how it will work.
And one of the things that you need
to do is show them well actually,
that's not the only way
it could have been done.
So what we do is we take a single sheet of
paper, we fold it in thirds one way, and
half the others so you end up with six
boxes basically on your sheet of paper.
And you ask them to sketch out in
the first box how they imagined
a particular page or
function will work on the website.
Once they've done that, you then say okay,
now fill in the other five, right?
And that forces them to think in different
ways that you might be able to solve
the same problem.
That can be a really useful
group exercise as well.
So there's an article there
of a few different exercises
you can do to engage your stakeholders.
So that's fundamentally how you wanna
prepare, is by getting them involved,
that's a big part of it.
But then, you also need to think
about possible objections.
Now I talked about objections earlier
in the context of user objections,
why users might not act on a website,
might not download your app,
might not do your call to action,
whatever it be.
But now,
I'm talking about objections about why
people might reject your design, right?
So why stakeholders might go no,
this design isn't right.
So the chances are that you will be
able to make some educated guesses about
problems or changes that your stakeholder
might raise during a presentation, right?
I highly encourage you,
just to spend a couple of minutes
writing down a list of these
things that they might say and
how you might answer them, so that you're
not surprised during the meeting, right?
Because if you have to think on your
feet in the meeting, it can be really
quite hard to do and having those
lined up makes an enormous difference.
So let's look at some common
ones that come up and
how I would respond to them, just to give
you a taste of what I've got in mind.
One that comes up all the time is can
we move it above the fold, all right?
Really common thing that comes up so
I have this little patter that whenever
that comes up, just flips, it clicks
in and I just say the same thing.
Which is basically, it's actually
an understandable misconception that users
don't scroll and so
you need prominent content above the fold.
And actually,
that misconception is based on some
research done in 1994 by Jacob Nielsen
that said, users don't scroll.
So that has stuck and
everybody now believes everything has to
be above the fold, if you want it seen.
However, as early as 1998, Jacob Nielsen
actually updated his study to say well,
that's no longer a problem and
users do scroll.
And as you can see from
the heatmap that we did,
the eye tracking heatmap that
uses a spotting content.
That's how I would deal with
that particular objection.
Another one is well,
it doesn't wow me, right?
Well, it just doesn't wow me,
another one, right?
Sometimes, my response to that is well,
it doesn't particularly wow me either, but
we're not the target audience.
Design tested well with our audience, and
I would advise against designing for us,
rather than the people
we're trying to attract.
So that's how I deal with that one and
again,
I'll refer back to the semantic
differential survey where we said yeah,
it ticks off all our keywords so
we know it appeals to our audience.
I vividly remember working on our
website back in the Myspace days,
do you remember that?
Yeah, probably not, you're all too young.
And I was working on a university
website and I did a design,
ended up looking a bit,
had that Myspace vibe to it and
I utterly despised it, it was horrible.
Picked worst piece of design I've ever
done and the client hated it as well, but
it tested through the roof with
the audience we were trying to attract.
So what do you do, right?
[LAUGH] Do you want a website that we
personally like and makes us feel better?
Or do you want a website that actually
resonates with the users you trying
to reach?
We decided on the latter, you know?
So that tends to be how
I took around that.
And then there is people won't see...,
whatever it is, people will miss this.
And that's where you go back,
it scored very highly when we run it
through the eye tracking algorithm, right?
However, you might be
right in the real world,
it might not, people might miss it,
so let's do some more testing.
At which point they go we
don't have time for that,
I'm sure the algorithm is fine and
then everybody moves on.
So it's about thinking
through in advance how you're
gonna deal with this kind of stuff,
it makes an enormous difference.
There's also another little factor
at play here and I can't remember,
though I touched on this later, I might be
repeating myself but I will say it now.
There's a psychological thing here,
all right?
Because if you go into a meeting, right?
Let's say you're the CEO of the company,
and you turn around to me and
you say, we need that element above
the fold, nobody will see it.
And even if I come back to you with this
great argument that's all well structured
and rest of it, it's become about
authority at this point, right?
I've basically made you look small,
all right?
And I've proved to the rest of
the room that you're wrong, okay?
But there's no way, you're the CEO of the
company, there's no way you're gonna roll
over and let me bulldoze you like that so
you're gonna fight back.
However, if I sat down before
that meeting, and identified,
bet the CEO is gonna say that
thing needs to be above the fold.
Then what I can do when I walk into
the presentation is I can lead with that,
I can say well, some people are,
I did play with the idea of moving
this element above the fold.
But actually I found
[SOUND] gave my reasons,
you haven't opened your
mouth as a CEO yet.
So if you're convinced by my reasoning,
you can just keep your mouth shut and
you don't lose any face.
Do you see what I mean?
So you can basically preempt,
it's all very manipulative, isn't it?
But you can preempt people's objections so
that they don't feel belittled in that
situation because the moment it becomes,
I really wanna say,
a test of how far one may urinate.
If it comes down to that, then you are
always gonna lose because as a designer,
you're gonna be quite low in the pecking
order so yeah, just bear that in mind.
Anyway, so, common objections.
The other thing that I do, is I try and
speak to all the stakeholders
before I do the presentation and
I try to speak to them individually.
This isn't always possible but it really
is worth doing if you possibly can.
So let's say you've got a presentation
where you know you're gonna be presenting
the design to a group of people, I try and
talk to each of those people
individually beforehand.
And the reason is, is that when I speak
to stakeholders individually, allows
me to tailor my message to the things that
I know will resonate with them, right?
So let's give you some examples.
So if I'm speaking to a marketing person
and I'm talking about the design that I've
produced, I can talk about how
it will improve engagement and
lead generation because that's
the things marketing people care about.
If I'm talking to a salesperson,
I can focus on lead quality and
quantity so how many leads and
how good those leads are.
If I'm talking to finance people,
I'll talk about how the improved
usability on the website will reduce
the number of customer queries and
that cost savings can come out of that,
right?
So it saves us money.
And then if I'm talking to IT,
I will emphasize how easy the site is
gonna be to build and to maintain.
And actually, these are tips that work not
just for design, but tips that work with
any, whenever you've got sell
something to somebody else, right?
You appeal to their selfish gene, right?
We're all selfish when
it comes down to it.
People don't care about the users, right?
So, a lot of designers go well,
the users need this, well,
no one think of the users.
And they're all trying to persuade
everyone else to care about user needs but
the truth is, nobody else does, right?
Not really, it's not their job to.
If you're a developer, it's not your
job to care about the users primarily.
You've got other things to worry about.
If you're a marketing person, we've all
got our own targets, our own problems.
But if you can demonstrate how
the design actually helps that bigger,
helps them reach their selfish aims, it
helps them meet their end of year bonus or
their next promotion, or whatever else.
Suddenly, they'll sign off on the design,
so
that's why I like to speak
to people individually.
Another little thing that I prepare,
you can either do this before or
after the presentation and
this again, is a beaut, right?
This is a really good trick,
he says modestly.
It's I create a short video
presentation of the design, right?
Why I've done it the way I've done it,
how I approached it,
all the things that led up to it.
The brand key was the wireframes,
the style tiles,
all the rest of it, all put in a video.
The reason that I do this is
because what happens is I go and
give my presentation,
say to you two, right?
So I've given my presentation to you two
and then what happens is you are not quite
sure about the design or whether, or it's
a big decision and bit out your pay grade.
And I've given you this amazing
presentation with all this information,
that means that you can
make an informed decision.
And then you, because you feel slightly
uncomfortable making a decision,
you walk out the room and
you go and see the CEO, right?
And you show them the design,
and what do you say to them?
What do you think?
Now as we've already established, that's
a really bad question to ask, right?
So we don't want them to be able to
just walk out with the design and
show it toward somebody
else with no context.
So I record a video and
that's what I give the stakeholders.
So they have to see the design within
the context of how it's explained.